Classes and Objects in Object Oriented Programming


Classes: A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. 
It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type. 
Classes are required in OOPs because:

It provides template for creating objects, which can bind code into data.
It has definitions of methods and data.
It supports inheritance property of Object Oriented Programming and hence can maintain class hierarchy.
It helps in maintaining the access specifications of member variables.
Objects: It is the basic unit of Object Oriented Programming and it represents the real life entities. 
Real-life entities share two characteristics: they all have attributes and behavior. 


Java Classes
A class in Java is a set of objects which shares common characteristics/ behavior and common properties/ attributes. It is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. For example, Student is a class while a particular student named Ravi is an object.

Properties of Java Classes
Class is not a real-world entity. It is just a template or blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.
Class does not occupy memory.
Class is a group of variables of different data types and a group of methods.
A Class in Java can contain:
Data member
Method
Constructor
Nested Class
Interface
Class Declaration in Java
access_modifier class <class_name>
{  
    data member;  
    method;  
    constructor;
    nested class;
    interface;
}


An object consists of:  

State: It is represented by attributes of an object. It also shows properties of an object.
Behavior: It is represented by methods of an object. It shows response of an object with other objects.
Identity: It gives a unique name to an object. It also grants permission to one object to interact with 
other objects.
Objects are required in OOPs because they can be created to call a non-static function which are not 
present inside the Main Method but present inside the Class and also provide the name to the space which 
is being used to store the data.
