Q1. What is Java? Introduction of Java? History of Java?

Developed by Sun Microsystems in 1995, Java is a highly popular, object-oriented programming language. This platform independent programming language is utilized for Android development, web development, artificial intelligence, cloud applications, and much more.



Q2. How to Download and Install Java?Setting Up the Environment in Java?

Through oracal website we can download different version of java after installation as per our system we need to set a enviroment veriable for java. In other words you need to inform to system during running program from where system can access compiler and java file.
 


Q3. How to Download and Install Eclipse on Windows?

As per the java version we need to install or Eclipse because if you Installed old version of java like java 8 or other so latest version of Eclipse will not support properlly 

Q4. What is Java Development Kit (JDK) in Java? JVM and its architecture? JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM?

Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc), and other tools needed in Java development. 

Now we need an environment to make a run of our program. Henceforth, JRE stands for “Java Runtime Environment” and may also be written as “Java RTE.” The Java Runtime Environment provides the minimum requirements for executing a Java application; it consists of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), core classes, and supporting files. 

Now let us discuss JVM, which stands out for java virtual machines. It is as follows:

A specification where the working of Java Virtual Machine is specified. But implementation provider is independent to choose the algorithm. Its implementation has been provided by Sun and other companies.
An implementation is a computer program that meets the requirements of the JVM specification.
Runtime Instance Whenever you write a java command on the command prompt to run the java class, an instance of JVM is created.
Before proceeding to the differences between JDK, JRE, and JVM, let us discuss them in brief first and interrelate them with the image below proposed.



Don’t get confused as we are going to discuss all of them one by one.

1. JDK (Java Development Kit) is a Kit that provides the environment to develop and execute(run) the Java program. JDK is a kit(or package) that includes two things

Development Tools(to provide an environment to develop your java programs)
JRE (to execute your java program).
2. JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is an installation package that provides an environment to only run(not develop) the java program(or application)onto your machine. JRE is only used by those who only want to run Java programs that are end-users of your system.

3. JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both. Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program line by line, hence it is also known as an interpreter.




Q5: Just In Time Compiler

The JIT or Just-In-Time compiler is an essential part of the JRE (Java Runtime Environment), that is responsible for performance optimization of java based applications during run time. The compiler is one of the key aspects in deciding the performance of an application for both parties i.e. the end-user and the application developer.


Q6: Byte Code Vs Machine Code

Byte code is an intermediate code between the source code and machine code. It is a low-level code that is the result of the compilation of a source code which is written in a high-level language. It is processed by a virtual machine like Java Virtual Machine (JVM).

Byte code is a non-runnable code after it is translated by an interpreter into machine code then it is understandable by the machine. It is compiled to run on JVM, any system having JVM can run it irrespective of their operating system. That’s why Java is platform-independent. Byte code is referred to as a Portable code.

Machine Code:

Machine code is a set of instructions that is directly machine-understandable and it is processed by the Central Processing Unit (CPU). Machine code is in binary (0’s and 1’s) format which is completely different from the byte code and source code. It is regarded as the most lowest-level representation of the source code. Machine code is obtained after compilation or interpretation. It is also called machine language.

